readme.md, before:

# Dries's Dotfiles

## What Is This?

This repository serves as my way to help me setup and maintain my Mac. It takes the effort out of installing everything manually. Everything which is needed to install my preffered setup of macOS is detailed in this readme. Feel free to explore, learn and copy parts for your own dotfiles. Enjoy! :smile:

Read the blog post: https://medium.com/@driesvints/getting-started-with-dotfiles-76bf046d035c

## A Fresh macOS Setup

### Before you re-install

First, go through the checklist below to make sure you didn't forget anything before you wipe your hard drive.

- Did you commit and push any changes/branches to your git repositories?
- Did you remember to save all important documents from non-iCloud directories?
- Did you save all of your work from apps which aren't synced through iCloud?
- Did you remember to export important data from your local database?
- Did you update [mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup) to the latest version and ran `mackup backup`?

### Installing macOS cleanly

After going to our checklist above and making sure you backed everything up, we're going to cleanly install macOS with the latest release. Follow [this article](https://www.imore.com/how-do-clean-install-macos) to cleanly install the latest macOS.

### Setting up your Mac

If you did all of the above you may now follow these install instructions to setup a new Mac.

1. Update macOS to the latest version with the App Store
2. Install Xcode from the App Store, open it and accept the license agreement
3. Install macOS Command Line Tools by running `xcode-select --install`
4. Copy your public and private SSH keys to `~/.ssh` and make sure they're set to `600`
5. Clone this repo to `~/.dotfiles`
6. Append `/usr/local/bin/zsh` to the end of your `/etc/shells` file
7. Run `install.sh` to start the installation
8. Restore preferences by running `mackup restore`
9. Restart your computer to finalize the process

Your Mac is now ready to use!

> Note: you can use a different location than `~/.dotfiles` if you want. Just make sure you also update the reference in the [`.zshrc`](./.zshrc) file.

## Your Own Dotfiles

If you want to start with your own dotfiles from this setup, it's pretty easy to do so. First of all you'll need to fork this repo. After that you can tweak it the way you want.

Go through the [`.macos`](./.macos) file and adjust the settings to your liking. You can find much more settings at [the original script by Mathias Bynens](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/blob/master/.macos) and [Kevin Suttle's macOS Defaults project](https://github.com/kevinSuttle/MacOS-Defaults).

Check out the [`Brewfile`](./Brewfile) file and adjust the apps you want to install for your machine. Use [their search page](https://caskroom.github.io/search) to check if the app you want to install is available.

Check out the [`aliases.zsh`](./aliases.zsh) file and add your own aliases. If you need to tweak your `$PATH` check out the [`path.zsh`](./path.zsh) file. These files get loaded in because the `$ZSH_CUSTOM` setting points to the `.dotfiles` directory. You can adjust the [`.zshrc`](./.zshrc) file to your liking to tweak your oh-my-zsh setup. More info about how to customize oh-my-zsh can be found [here](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/wiki/Customization).

When installing these dotfiles for the first time you'll need to backup all of your settings with Mackup. Install and backup your settings with the command below. Your settings will be synced to iCloud so you can use them to sync between computers and reinstall them when reinstalling your Mac. If you want to save your settings to a different directory or different storage than iCloud, [checkout the documentation](https://github.com/lra/mackup/blob/master/doc/README.md#storage).

```zsh
brew install mackup
mackup backup
```

You can tweak the shell theme, the Oh My Zsh settings and much more. Go through the files in this repo and tweak everything to your liking.

Enjoy your own Dotfiles!

## Thanks To...

I first got the idea for starting this project by visiting the [Github does dotfiles](https://dotfiles.github.io/) project. Both [Zach Holman](https://github.com/holman/dotfiles) and [Mathias Bynens](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles) were great sources of inspiration. [Sourabh Bajaj](https://twitter.com/sb2nov/)'s [Mac OS X Setup Guide](http://sourabhbajaj.com/mac-setup/) proved to be invaluable. Thanks to [Taylor Otwell](https://twitter.com/taylorotwell) for his awesome Zsh theme! And lastly, I'd like to thank [Maxime Fabre](https://twitter.com/anahkiasen) for [his excellent presentation on Homebrew](https://speakerdeck.com/anahkiasen/a-storm-homebrewin) which made me migrate a lot to a [`Brewfile`](./Brewfile) and [Mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup).

In general, I'd like to thank every single one who open-sources their dotfiles for their effort to contribute something to the open-source community. Your work means the world! :earth_africa: :heart:

Commit message:

Add note about installing Oh My Zsh first

readme.md, after:

# Dries's Dotfiles

## What Is This?

This repository serves as my way to help me setup and maintain my Mac. It takes the effort out of installing everything manually. Everything which is needed to install my preffered setup of macOS is detailed in this readme. Feel free to explore, learn and copy parts for your own dotfiles. Enjoy! :smile:

Read the blog post: https://medium.com/@driesvints/getting-started-with-dotfiles-76bf046d035c

## A Fresh macOS Setup

### Before you re-install

First, go through the checklist below to make sure you didn't forget anything before you wipe your hard drive.

- Did you commit and push any changes/branches to your git repositories?
- Did you remember to save all important documents from non-iCloud directories?
- Did you save all of your work from apps which aren't synced through iCloud?
- Did you remember to export important data from your local database?
- Did you update [mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup) to the latest version and ran `mackup backup`?

### Installing macOS cleanly

After going to our checklist above and making sure you backed everything up, we're going to cleanly install macOS with the latest release. Follow [this article](https://www.imore.com/how-do-clean-install-macos) to cleanly install the latest macOS.

### Setting up your Mac

If you did all of the above you may now follow these install instructions to setup a new Mac.

1. Update macOS to the latest version with the App Store
2. Install Xcode from the App Store, open it and accept the license agreement
3. Install macOS Command Line Tools by running `xcode-select --install`
4. Copy your public and private SSH keys to `~/.ssh` and make sure they're set to `600`
5. Clone this repo to `~/.dotfiles`
6. Append `/usr/local/bin/zsh` to the end of your `/etc/shells` file
7. Run `install.sh` to start the installation
8. Restore preferences by running `mackup restore`
9. Restart your computer to finalize the process

Your Mac is now ready to use!

> Note: you can use a different location than `~/.dotfiles` if you want. Just make sure you also update the reference in the [`.zshrc`](./.zshrc) file.

## Your Own Dotfiles

If you want to start with your own dotfiles from this setup, it's pretty easy to do so. First of all you'll need to fork this repo. After that you can tweak it the way you want.

Go through the [`.macos`](./.macos) file and adjust the settings to your liking. You can find much more settings at [the original script by Mathias Bynens](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/blob/master/.macos) and [Kevin Suttle's macOS Defaults project](https://github.com/kevinSuttle/MacOS-Defaults).

Check out the [`Brewfile`](./Brewfile) file and adjust the apps you want to install for your machine. Use [their search page](https://caskroom.github.io/search) to check if the app you want to install is available.

Check out the [`aliases.zsh`](./aliases.zsh) file and add your own aliases. If you need to tweak your `$PATH` check out the [`path.zsh`](./path.zsh) file. These files get loaded in because the `$ZSH_CUSTOM` setting points to the `.dotfiles` directory. You can adjust the [`.zshrc`](./.zshrc) file to your liking to tweak your Oh My Zsh setup. More info about how to customize Oh My Zsh can be found [here](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/wiki/Customization). **Please note that for new installs you first need to [install Oh My Zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh#getting-started).** These dotfiles asume you already have Oh My Zsh installed and synced with Mackup.

When installing these dotfiles for the first time you'll need to backup all of your settings with Mackup. Install and backup your settings with the command below. Your settings will be synced to iCloud so you can use them to sync between computers and reinstall them when reinstalling your Mac. If you want to save your settings to a different directory or different storage than iCloud, [checkout the documentation](https://github.com/lra/mackup/blob/master/doc/README.md#storage).

```zsh
brew install mackup
mackup backup
```

You can tweak the shell theme, the Oh My Zsh settings and much more. Go through the files in this repo and tweak everything to your liking.

Enjoy your own Dotfiles!

## Thanks To...

I first got the idea for starting this project by visiting the [Github does dotfiles](https://dotfiles.github.io/) project. Both [Zach Holman](https://github.com/holman/dotfiles) and [Mathias Bynens](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles) were great sources of inspiration. [Sourabh Bajaj](https://twitter.com/sb2nov/)'s [Mac OS X Setup Guide](http://sourabhbajaj.com/mac-setup/) proved to be invaluable. Thanks to [Taylor Otwell](https://twitter.com/taylorotwell) for his awesome Zsh theme! And lastly, I'd like to thank [Maxime Fabre](https://twitter.com/anahkiasen) for [his excellent presentation on Homebrew](https://speakerdeck.com/anahkiasen/a-storm-homebrewin) which made me migrate a lot to a [`Brewfile`](./Brewfile) and [Mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup).

In general, I'd like to thank every single one who open-sources their dotfiles for their effort to contribute something to the open-source community. Your work means the world! :earth_africa: :heart:
